<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type"
content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage Express 2.0">
<title>Understanding and Interpretation of Literature</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF">

<h1 align="center">Understanding Literature</h1>

<p>More than two thousand years ago, the Roman poet Horace
claimed that literature is &quot;sweet&quot; and
&quot;useful.&quot; Since then, literature has been traditionally
understood, at least in Western cultures, as having the dual
purpose of entertaining and educating its audience. Literary
texts are constructed in effect as objects of beauty, sources of
pleasure and as conveyors of messages and information. While
authors often claim no practical purpose for their works, all
literature constitutes an attempt at persuasively conveying
certain values and ideas. The entertaining and beautiful aspect
of literary works acts in reality as part of the appeal and
attractiveness which the work tries to attach to the ideas which
it seeks to convey. The beauty of literature is therefore a part
of its rhetoric, a device intended to strengthen the overall
persuasiveness and influence of the work on its audience. While
the entertaining aspect of literature may be rather obvious,
understanding the ideas or values which a text advances is not
always a simple task. Part of the problem is the fact that the
ideas of a literary text are almost always presented in indirect
or &quot;symbolic&quot; form. Take for example the following very
simple narrative:</p>

<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><b><img src="aesop.jpg" width="288" height="458"></b></p>
<p>In itself an amusing story, we know nevertheless that one of
the purposes of this fable of Aesop--a Greek storyteller of the
6th century B. C.--is to teach a point about the dangers of greed
and the importance of being happy with what we have. Although
those points are not literally or explicitly made in the story,
they are embedded in its symbolism. In this story, the animal and
his actions are not to be taken literally but instead are to be
understood as symbolic representations of certain kinds of human
character and behavior. An important guide in literary study is
the idea that one must always strive to go beyond the literal or
the mere appearances of things and search instead for the
&quot;meat&quot; of the story. Unlike the dog of Aesop's fable,
we should not allow ourselves to be fooled by false appearances.
In the reading you will do in this course, you will be engaging
in a constant search for the ideas and values which, although
often not explicitly mentioned in the texts, constitute the
substance of literary works.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>The fact that literary texts very much seek to convey a
message to their audience does not mean that their authors are
always fully aware of or even interested in that function of
their work. Authors in effect often craft their works in very
practical and almost automatic ways and do not bother asking or
answering questions as to their significance. What seems most
important to authors is to create a pleasing or beautiful object
which somehow closely conforms to and expresses the features of
an otherwise undefined inward impulse. Many authors in fact are
quite hostile toward the interpretation of their works and refuse
to have anything to do with it. Samuel Beckett is quoted as
having said, &quot;it's bad enough to have to write these books
without talking about them too.&quot; To begin to understand this
odd relation of literature to its authors, we may recall its
analogy, noted by Sigmund Freud, to the relation between dreams
and dreamers. Just as dreams often convey meaning and information
to the dreamer in puzzling symbolic images, literature may be
said to function in a similar way. The author of a literary text
can be compared to a dreamer transcribing his dreams into written
language. But just as a dreamer is often unaware of the meaning
of his/her own dreams, writers too cannot always explain what it
is that their writings mean. The writing of literature is many
times an almost unconscious performance which allows for the
halfveiled expression of ideas and concepts which transcend the
conscious mental life or avowed intentions of authors. Dealing
frequently with highly charged, emotionally loaded, dangerous, or
threatening ideas and desires, dreams and literary texts
constitute ways of giving 'safe' (i.e. unclear, ambiguous, and
concealed) and also powerful and influential expression to
materials which, for a variety of reasons, cannot or should not
be fully brought into consciousness or verbal expression.
Therefore, the opinions and ideas of an author about his/her own
work are not necessarily the most reliable guides toward a
meaningful interpretation of a text. Like a psychoanalyst and his
patient, an intelligent and attentive reader may be able to
understand a text better than the very person who wrote it.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Given that literature attempts to promote certain ideas,
values, or ideologies, one might inquire as to their precise
nature and content. All literary works are produced by specific
human beings belonging to specific cultures at given historical
times and occupying very definite positions within the structures
and hierarchies of their societies. Not surprisingly, the ideas
and values which literary works seek to promote are influenced by
the history, culture and circumstances relevant to the
individuals who produce them. Rather than a disinterested or
idealistic endeavor, literature is a very worldly and very
practical sort of activity aimed at the promotion and
dissemination of cultural values and views of the world which are
tightly connected to the interests of the author and of the
dominant and other powers in her/his society. It should be noted
of course that the relation of the author to the powers,
institutions, and systems of belief of his/her time can be one of
affinity, opposition, or even ambiguity. For these reasons, an
understanding of literature and of particular literary texts
depends not only on the isolated reading of certain individual
works and the consideration of their authors's lives and their
circumstances but also upon a solid knowledge and critical
examination of the human history, language, and culture
(including art, music, philosophy, religion, science, politics,
etc.) of which literature forms part and which it represents. The
study of literature is therefore an eminently interdisciplinary
endeavor through which we attempt to make sense of the human
experience throughout history and of the ways in which human
beings represent that experience and come to an understanding of
themselves and of the world around them.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>An important feature of literary texts which distinguishes
them from other kinds of persuasive discourse is the fact that
they operate not through direct statement and explicit revelation
of their contents but instead through indirect allusion,
understatement, implication, and even concealment. Literary texts
in effect often veil the 'truth' which they seek to convey in an
attempt at enhancing its attractiveness and endowing it with a
sense of mystery and transcendental value. Literature, much like
modern advertisement, is often an attempt at persuasion which
operates on subliminal levels and artfully instills its message
by concealing it under a cover of fictional situations and
devices affecting the audience on emotional, intuitive,
experiential, and instinctive levels. A given story for example
may seek to promote a particular view of the world not by flatly
stating it but instead by constructing a set of emotionally
charged and seemingly &quot;realistic&quot; situations leading to
the almost unavoidable, but always unstated, conclusion of the
story's intended moral. Literary texts thus convey meaning to
their readers in ways which go far beyond the mere literal or
&quot;surface&quot; level of signification. Indeed, literary
texts distinguish themselves from other texts by the subtleties
and intricacies of their many levels of meaning and by the common
fact that the actual &quot;meaning&quot; of the text is almost
always hidden and implicit in the fabric of the work's devices.
Meaning in literature is therefore something that needs to be
determined not merely on the basis of a face value understanding
of the words in it but through a complete evaluation of the
signifying complexity of the rhetoric, figures of speech, images,
symbols, allusions, connotations, suggestions, and implications
of the entire text.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Given its tendency to speak about its subject indirectly, the
essential mode of communication of literature may be said to be a
symbolic one. A symbol may be defined in general terms as a
signifier of a complex nature which always places its most
important referent outside of itself. For the purposes of
conveying meaning, literary texts make use of a variety of
special signifying devices--known in general as figures or
tropes--such as symbols, allegories, metaphors, metonymies,
similes, paradoxes, ironies, etc. Although each literary device
has a name and a definition, it is not so important to know what
they are called so much as to understand that, in general,
symbolic figures make indirect references and create
semi-invisible chains of association between different sets of
images, concepts, and ideas. The associative logic that governs
the behavior of those chains of meaning, however, is not always
fixed or consistent and often varies widely from text to text and
even within a single text. A sensitive and alert reading of a
particular text is therefore of paramount importance in
discovering the internally-defined logic of association relevant
to that text and its parts.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>While the logic of association of literary texts is unstable
and variable, it is almost always grounded on binary systems of
distinctions and polar oppositions defined either by literary
convention and/or internally within the text. Given a set of
basic symbolic oppositions, connections created by symbolic
figures in a text are generally governed by similarities to and
differences from the basic binary parameters. Being able to
perceive similarities and differences between groups of images,
words, and ideas in a text is therefore the first step toward the
discovery of its underlying categories and structures of symbols
and ideas. Take for example a story where a cruel monster is
described as having the appearance of a mountain lion and where
later we find a seemingly virtuous man also compared to a
mountain lion. We can begin to perceive that, although they may
seem very different, the text also wants us in a way to place the
man and the monster in the same category and perhaps understand
that the man is also, in some mysterious sense, a cruel monster.
Such a story could in a very subtle way be implying a critical
comment concerning the character of its hero or even the virtues
cherished in the society in which the hero lives. Often indeed
under the façade of an unbelievable tale of monsters and
adventures lies hidden the architecture of an entire set of
values and a complex system of thought and ideas.</p>

<p><b>Outline of important points and issues:</b></p>
<ul>
  <li>Literature as entertainment and education; to delight and influence the 
    audience</li>
  <li>Horace (65-8 B.C.): literature &quot;dulce et utile&quot; (&quot;sweet and 
    useful&quot;)</li>
  <li>Literature as rhetorical practice, relation to arts of persuasion</li>
  <li>Binding together of ideas with words and imagery appealing to the senses, 
    as well as situations evoking an emotional response from the audience (pity, 
    fear, sympathy, happiness, sadness, love, hate, etc.)</li>
  <li>Figurality of literary signification: symbol, metaphor, allegory; meaning 
    beyond the literal</li>
  <li>Levels/layers of meaning: literal and figural or symbolic level of meaning</li>
  <li>The symbolic level has been sometimes subdivided into other levels--such 
    as the moral, the allegorical, the anagogic--by authors and thinkers such 
    as Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) and Dante (1265-1321).</li>
  <li>Tradition of representing ideas, concepts, values, and spiritual notions 
    by means of sensory images. Thomas Aquinas believed the use of metaphors also 
    relevant and appropriate to the biblical text: &quot;. . . it is befitting 
    Holy Scripture to put forward divine and spiritual truths by means of comparisons 
    with material things. . . . Now it is natural to man to attain to intellectual 
    truths through sensible things, because all our knowledge originates from 
    sense. Hence in Holy Scripture spiritual truths are fittingly taught under 
    the likeness of material things&quot; (Thomas Aquinas, <i>Summa Theologica</i>)</li>
  <li>Hermeneutics, exegesis: arts of textual interpretation; the search for meaning 
    beyond the obvious and the literal</li>
  <li>Authors: intentions of the author; conscious and unconscious processes; 
    Freud, dreams, dreamers and creative writers; determinants of the authorial 
    conscious and unconscious: desire, history, culture, economics, politics, 
    etc.; fragmentation/heterogeneity of the human subject and corresponding phenomena 
    in the literary text; basis for variety of interpretations</li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>
