<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//IETF//DTD HTML//EN">
<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 6.0">
<title>Arts and Entertainment</title>
</head>

<body background="images/back.gif" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000" link="#0000FF"
vlink="#800080" alink="#FF0000">

<table border="0" width="100%">
  <tr>
    <td align="center" width="25%"><a href="contents.htm"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Contents</font></a></td>
    <td align="center" width="25%"><a href="details.htm"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Site
    Information</font></a></td>
    <td align="center" width="25%"><a href="data.htm"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Site
    Data</font></a></td>
    <td align="center" width="25%"><a href="links.htm"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Reference
    and Trivia Links </font></a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p align="center"><font size="5" face="MS Sans Serif">Arts and Entertainment</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The model ape used in the
1933 movie ' King Kong ' was 18 inches tall.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Dorris Day began her career
as a dancer, and only began singing when she broke her leg.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The statue ' The thinker '
by Rodin is actually a portrait of the Italian poet Dante.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Lord Byron had a club foot.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">There are over 30 000 verses
in the Bible.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The Eskimo language has over
twenty words to describe different kinds of snow.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">William Shakespeare married
Anne Hathaway on 27 November 1582, he was 18 at the time.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Samuel Clemens was not the
only writer to use the pen-name ' Mark Twain '. It was used several years earlier by Isiah
Sellers. Both men were river pilots on the Mississippi, where ' Mark Twain ' was a common
technical term.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Donald Duck lives at 1313
Webfoot Walk, Duckburg, Calisota.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#FF0000" size="2" face="Arial">&nbsp;</font><font
color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial"> The Brothers Grimm compiled 211 fairy/folk tales.
The brothers Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm did not write their tales as original stories, but
from folk stories handed down through the generations. Their interest was in the early
nineteenth century effort to create a German nation as at that time, modern Germany was
divided into dozens of sovereign states. Their efforts also included the creation of a
German dictionary that brought together the many dialects in an effort to establish a
single German language.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Foghorn Leghorn's favourite
song is ' Camptown Races '.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The tablecloth in da Vinci's
Last supper was white.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The Marque de Sade wrote '
The 120 days of Sodom ' on a 120 metre roll of paper while imprisoned in the Bastille.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Snow White's coffin was made
of glass.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">Bilbo and Frodo (from 'Lord
of the Rings') share the same birthday, September 22.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The uncut version of the
movie 'The longest day' was 179 minutes long. </font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The natural substance the
violin bows are strung with is horse hair.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">X-ray technology has shown
there are 3 different versions of the Mona Lisa under the visible one.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">James Bond smokes 'Morland
Balkan' cigarettes.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial">The movie ' Wanda whips Wall
Street ' was the first to be billed as being backed by Wall Street.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Composer Johann Sebastian Bach once
walked 230 miles to hear the organist at Lubeck in Germany.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Pope Paul IV, who was elected on 23
May 1555, was so outraged when he saw the naked bodies on the ceiling of the Sistene
Chapel that he ordered Michelangelo to paint garments on to them.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">World heavyweight boxing champion,
Gene Tunney also lectured on Shakespeare at Yale University later in his life.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">William Shakespeare's father's first
name was John.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Elzie Crisler Segar created the
comic strip character Popeye in 1919</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The 'Thing', from the movie of the
same name, had green blood.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The fictional highwayman Dick
Turpin's horse was called Black Bess.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Maxwell Klinger (from the TV series
M*A*S*H) wore a '36B Miss Highrise' bra.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Beatles song 'A day in the life'
ends with a note sustained for 40 seconds.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Yul Brynner stared in the play 'The
king and I' more than 4000 times.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#FF0000" size="2" face="Arial">&nbsp;</font><font
color="#000000" size="2" face="Arial"> </font><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Superman's
hair grows ' incredibly long' when exposed to red kryptonite.<br>
( additional storylines include other random effects )</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Miss Piggy's measurements are
27-20-32.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Roger Ramjet's American Eagle
Squadron consists of Yank, Doodle, Dan and Dee.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Daffy Duck made his debut in 1937 in
' Porky's Duck Hunt '.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">John Cage composed 'Imaginary
Landscaper No.4', which was scored for twelve radios tuned at random.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Charles Dickens was an insomniac,
who believed his best chance of sleeping was in the centre of a bed facing directly north.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Although starring in many gangster
films, James Cagney started his career as a chorus girl.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Michelangelo died at the age of 88.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The writer, Rudyard Kipling, only
ever used black ink.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">John Lennon's middle name was
Winston.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In the film 'Star Trek : First
Contact', when Picard shows Lilly she is orbiting Earth, Australia and Papa New Guinea are
clearly visible .. but New Zealand is missing .</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The leading part in Shakespeare's
play 'The Merchant of Venice' is Shylock the Jew, though the play was written during a
time when Jews were banned from living in Britain.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Handel wrote the score of his
Messiah in just over 3 weeks.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The 'Mona Lisa' was once brought by
Francis I of France in 1517 to hang in a bathroom.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">'Cocksucker Blues' was a 1976 film
about The Rolling Stones.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The movie 'Cleopatra', starring
Elizabeth Taylor, was banned from Egypt in 1963 because she was a Jewish convert.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Over two hundred different languages
are spoken throughout the Soviet Union.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Virginia Woolf wrote most of her
work standing up.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Betty Grable's legs were insured for
one million dollars.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The 'Over the rainbow' scene from
'The Wizard of Oz' was originally cut from the film because it was 'slow' and added
nothing to the plot. It was added again at the last moment.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The 3 largest newspaper circulations
are Russian.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Before Mickey Mouse, Felix the Cat
was the most popular cartoon character.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Salvador Dali once arrived to an art
exhibition in a limousine filled with turnips.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The B'52's, were named after a
Fifties Hairdo.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">During the chariot scene in 'Ben
Hur' a small red car can be seen in the distance.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Over 400 films has been made, based
on the plays of Shakespeare.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary' was
Mary, Queen of Scots.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">There are 256
semihemidemisemiquavers in a breve.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Frank Sinatra was once quoted as
saying rock 'n' roll was only played by 'cretinous goons'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The vegetarian composer Richard
Wagner, once published a diatribe against 'the abominable practice of flesh eating'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The juke-box derives from the old
English word for dancing - juke.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Marx Brothers (Chico, Harpo,
Groucho, and Zeppo) were actually named respectively Leonard, Adolph, Julius, and Hebert.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">When young and impoverished, Pablo
Picasso kept warm by burning his own paintings.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">'I am a Walrus', by John Lenon, was
inspired by a police two tone siren.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Charles Baudelaire, preferred to
Wagners music, the sounds ' of a cat hung up by its tail outside a window and trying to
stick to the panes of glass with its claws'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The subject of the first printed
book in England was Chess.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Tiny Tim called his daughter Tulip
after his 1968 hit 'Tiptoe through the Tulips'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">One of Britain's most famous
composers, Sir Michael Tippett, composed pieces notoriously difficult to play, At the
premiere of his 'Symphony No. 2', the orchestra got lost in the middle of the piece and
the conductor had to start again.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The canine filmstar Rin Tin Tin is
buried in Pere-Lachaise cemetery in Paris.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">B.B. King's guitar, 'Lucille' is a
Gibson guitar.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Between 1931 and 1969 Walt Disney
collected thirty-five Oscars.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font color="#FF0000" size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">&nbsp;</font><font
size="2" face="MS Sans Serif"> The French equivalent of 'the quick brown fox jumps over
the lazy dog', a sentence which contains every letter of the alphabet (useful when
learning to type), is 'Allez porter ce vieux whisky au juge blond qui fume un Havane',
which translates to 'Go and take this old whisky to the fair-haired judge smoking the
Havana cigar'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In the famous line 'Wherefore art
thou Romeo', wherefore means why, not where.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In the story of Cinderella, her
slippers were originally fur, but they became glass because of an error in translation.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Enid Blyton, writer of the 'Famous
Five' had 59 stories published in 1959.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Pablo Picasso was abandoned by the
midwife just after his birth because she though he was stillborn. He was saved by an
uncle.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Nineteenth-century artist, Cesar
Ducornet, drew with his feet - he had no arms.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Composer Ludwig van Beethoven was
once arrested for vagrancy.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Mickey mouse's Latin name is Michael
Musculus.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">About half the piano's in England
are thought to be out of tune.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The phrase ' The 3 R's ' ( standing
for 'reading, writing and arithmetic' ) was created by Sir William Curtis, who was
illiterate.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">To romanticise his image, Warner
Brothers claimed that Humphrey Bogart was born on Christmas day, he was born 23 January
1899.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">With 1477 stops, 33,112 pipes and a
365 horse-power engine, the Auditorium Organ in Atlantic City is the largest in the world.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Monaco's national orchestra is
bigger than its army.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Larry Hagman didn't allow smoking on
the set of Dallas.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">It is the Doppler Effect, that
causes trains and helicopters to change pitch as it passes by.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Giacomo Puccina, who composed many
famous opera's such as &quot;La Boheme&quot; and &quot;Madam Butterfly&quot; also composed
&quot; La Fanciulla del West&quot; set in the Wild West at the time of the Californian
Gold Rush.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Rice - Lloyd Webber contemplated a
show based on the Cuban missile crisis.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The balls of purring fluff in the
Star Trek series were 'Tribbles'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The first Academy Awards (or
Oscar's) were presented on 16 May 1929.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In the original Star Wars movie,
there are only two named female characters.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">About two-thirds of the world's
population have no regular contact with newspapers, television, radio or telephones.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The theme music of the original Lone
Ranger was The William tell Overture.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Richard Strauss wrote a 'gay
Viennese ballet' on the subject of Whipped Cream.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Colonel Potter, from the TV series
M*A*S*H, was allergic to tomato juice.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">During World War II, W.C. Fields
kept US $50 000 in Germany 'in case the little bastard wins'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The French composer J.B. Lully,
while conducting a concert, pierced his foot with a pointed baton, and died from the
resulting gangrene.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Stone's album 'Sticky Finger's
has a zip on its sleeve.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The most commonly sung song in the
world - Happy birthday to you - is under copyright, the copyright runs out in 2010.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Of the two chipmunks, Chip and Dale,
Chip has the black nose.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Colour televisions are capable of
producing only 3 colours, red, green and blue.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Fred Astaire's first screen notes
read: 'Can't act, Can't Sing, Can Dance a little'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Nazi-sympathist song 'Don't
Let's Be Beastly to the German's', was sung seven times in one evening by Noel Coward, at
the request of Winston Churchill.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Issur Danielovitch Demsky was born
on 9 December 1916, but most people know him as Kirk Douglas.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">On the same day as he completed his
masterpiece &quot;The Divine Comedy&quot;, the Italian poet Dante died.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Elizabeth I, thought it was ill bred
to make music in public.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Boomtown Rats, who made a hit
single, were inspired by a female random killer whose excuse was 'I don't like Mondays.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Charlie Chaplain's cane was made of
bamboo.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Judy Garland's false eyelashes were
sold at auction in 1979 for US $125.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The poet Coleridge drank about 2
litres of laudanum (tincture of opium) each week at the height of his addiction.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Turkish War inspired the song'
We Don't Want To Fight But By Jingo If We Do'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">According to Genesis 7:2, God told
Noah to take 14 of each kind of 'clean' animal into the ark.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Because metal was scarce, the Oscars
given out during World War II were made of wood.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Bambi was originally published in
1929 in German.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">According to Genesis 1:20-22 the
chicken came before the egg.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Marlene Dietrich was born 27
December 1901. She was one of the most popular film actresses of her day, and was
considered an expert on men. She was said &quot;Most women set out to try to change a man
and when they have changed him they do not like him&quot;</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The opera singer Enrico Caruso
practised in the bath, while accompanied by a pianist in a nearby room.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Colophony is a bow resin.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In the first 2 years after 'talkies'
appeared, US cinema's have attracted over 100 million people a week.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Bob Dylan turned The Beatles on to
marijuana.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The name of the 'Love Boat' was the
'Pacific Princess'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The first crime mentioned in the
first episode of 'Hill Street Blues' was armed robbery.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">A Penny whistle has six finger
holes.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Ghosts appear in 4 Shakespearian
plays; Julius Caesar, Richard III, Hamlet and Macbeth.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">George Bernard Shaw refused an Oscar
in 1938, for the screenplay Pygmalion.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Mozart was buried in an unmarked
pauper's grave.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Sergei Prokofiev composed an opera
called 'The Giant' when he was only seven years old.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Actress Sarah Bernhardt played the
part of Juliet (13 years old) when she was 70 years old.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Beethoven's Fifth, was the first
symphony to include trombones.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The original title for the best
seller 'Gone with the wind' was 'Ba! Ba! Black sheep'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Guinness Book of Records holds
the record for being the book most often stolen from British Public Libraries.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Sophia Loren's sister was once
married to the son of the Italian dictator, Mussolini.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In Papua New Guinea there are
villages within five miles of each other which speak different languages.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The band, Buffalo Springfield, was
named after an American Tractor.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Steve Martin's first movie was 'The
Jerk'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Irving Berlin, who was born on 11
May 1888 and who composed three thousand songs in his lifetime, couldn't read music.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Turkey has a ban on kissing in
films.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Pearl Harbour air raid inspired
the song 'Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">West Side Story is based on
Shakespear's play, Romeo and Juilet.&nbsp;</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The great film comedian, W.C.
Fields, died on Christmas Day in 1946. His tombstone bore the following epitaph: &quot; On
the whole I would rather be in Philadelphia&quot;.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Mae West was once dubbed 'The statue
of Libido'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">EMI stands for ' Electrical and
Musical Instruments'.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The Green Hornet is the Lone
Ranger's grandnephew.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">A Flemish artist is responsible for
one of the smallest paintings in history. It is a picture of a miller and his mill, and it
was painted on to a grain of corn.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Maurice Ravel, the French composer,
died on 28 December 1937. He suffered from a debilitating brain disease late in his life,
which left him unable to speak or even sign his name.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Leonardo da Vinci played the viola.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Some hotels in Las Vegas have
gambling tables floating in their swimming pools.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Two of the greatest writers who ever
lives, William Shakespeare and Miguel de Cervantes (who wrote Don Quixote), both died on
23 April 1616.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The French critic, Saint-Beuve, was
born on 23 December 1804. On one occasion in his life he was unfortunate enough to get
involved in a duel. When asked to choose his weapons, he replied &quot; I choose spelling,
You're dead&quot;.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Composer Johann Sebastian Bach once
walked 230 miles to hear the organist at Lubeck in Germany.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Beethoven incorporated the tune of
'God Save the King' into his 'Battle' Symphony.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Only one western film has even been
directed by a woman.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The longest Hollywood kiss was from
the 1941 film 'You're in the Army now', it lasted 3 minutes and 3 seconds.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Each episode of 'Dr. Kildare'
contained 3 suffering patients.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The first ever musical recording was
to the tune of Yankee Doodle.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">A hydrodaktulopsychicharmonica is a
variety of musical glasses.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">In 1976 Rodrigo's 'Guitar Concierto
de Aranjuez' was No I in the UK for only three hours because of a computer error.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">The music hall entertainer Nosmo
King derived his stage name from a 'No Smoking' sign.</font></p>

<p align="center"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Walt Disney originally supplied the
voice for his character 'Mickey Mouse'.</font></p>

<hr>

<p align="center"><font size="1" face="MS Sans Serif">While all attempts are made to
ensure only accurate information is displayed on this site, no guarantee is given for the
authenticity or accuracy of this data<br>
</font><a href="mailto:darthur@bitworks.co.nz"><font size="2" face="MS Sans Serif">Re-Evolution
© 1997</font></a></p>
</body>
</html>
