<HTML>

<HEAD>

<TITLE>Reading/Language Arts Center:Literacy, Literature,and Learning for Life </TITLE> 
</HEAD>
<BODY bgcolor="#ffffff">

<H1>Literacy, Literature,and Learning for Life</H1>


<B>by <A HREF="/rdg/res/bios/coop_bio.html">J. David
Cooper</A></B>
<HR>
<P><B>Table of Contents</B><P>
<UL>
<LI><A HREF="#1">A Broadened Concept of Literacy</A><BR>
<LI><A HREF="#2">Implications of "Real World" Literacy</A><BR>
<LI><A HREF="#3">"Real World" Themes</A><BR>
<LI><A HREF="#4">Advantages of "Real World" Themes</A><BR>
<LI><A HREF="#5">Conclusions</A><BR>
<LI><A HREF="#6">References</A>
</UL>
<HR>



<P>As we enter Ms. Morley's fourth grade class, we can immediately tell that they
are studying about the environment. There is an exciting display of magazines and
books, including such favorites as <I>The Great Kapok Tree: A Tale of the Amazon
Rain Forest</I> (Cherry, 1990) and <I>Just a Dream </I>(Van Allsburg, 1990).
Posters about protecting the Earth are everywhere. A large bulletin board headed
WAYS TO IMPROVE OUR ENVIRONMENT has magazine photos and drawings with captions
that students have been bringing for display. Some students are having a
discussion about the book The Great Yellowstone Fire (Vogel & Goldner, 1990); one
student is showing photographs and articles his dad had collected about the fire.
Others are reading an article from <I>3*2*1 Contact</I> entitled "Act Now: The
Earth Patrol Guide to Preserve and Protect;" these students are writing a skit to
show how boys and girls can help to protect the environment. Still other students
are working on the computer constructing graphs about endangered animals in the
environment.

<P>Ms. Morley explains that she and her students use many different resources and
pieces of literature as they develop their themes. She notes that her goal is to
work together with her students to help them learn to communicate as they are
going to have to do in real life.

<P>You might ask, "What is so special or different about this fourth grade
class?" Ms. Morley's class shows what many teachers around the country are doing.
They are:

<OL> <LI>Focusing on a broader concept of literacy.

<LI>Using a combination of quality literature, both fiction and nonfiction, and
other "real world" resources as a part of instruction.

<LI>Providing learning experiences which include a variety of types of activities
that allow them to meet the needs of all the students in their classrooms. </OL>

<P>In this paper we will examine why these things are taking place and look at
why these classrooms are better for our students.

<A NAME="1"></A><H2>A BROADENED CONCEPT OF LITERACY</H2>

<P>For many years, literacy has simply been viewed as the ability of individuals
to read and write (Smith, 1965). However, research during the past two decades
has helped us to learn a great deal about literacy, what it is, and how it is
used both in and out of school.

<P>Shirley Brice Heath (1983) in her classic study of literacy found that
literacy involves much more than reading books and writing papers, the activities
most emphasized in schools. She found that children and young adults often use
literacy for such reasons as solving problems -- they read signs or advertisements;
for social activities -- writing letters, bumper stickers, posters; for gaining
news and information -- reading newspapers and magazines; for remembering
things -- messages to self and others; and so forth.

<P>Guthrie and Greaney (1991) looked at the research focusing on the literacy
acts of adults as compared to those of children. They found that adults spend
time reading for leisure, for their occupation, and for participation in their
communities. Adult literacy acts include reading fiction and nonfiction as well
as reading such things as tables, memos, charts, magazines, and posters. However,
when Guthrie and Greaney looked at school-based literacy activities, they found
that more time was devoted to the teaching of reading skills, as opposed to
actually reading.

<P>Another source of information about literacy comes from looking at what
potential employers expect of individuals as they come out of school and seek
jobs. Much of the research in this area has shown that the literacy expectations
of employers are very different from what schools have typically provided (Heath,
1980). For nearly twenty years, surveys of potential employers have shown that
they want individuals who can do much more than read and write (Research for
Better Schools, 1978); they want individuals who can listen, learn on their own,
and analyze situations to identify and solve problems.

<P>More recently, the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills
(SCANS, 1991) undertook a study to advise the Secretary of Labor about the level
of skills needed to enter employment. The results of this study were very clear
and simple:

<BLOCKQUOTE>Good jobs will increasingly depend on people who can put knowledge to
 work. What we found was disturbing: more than half our young people leave school
without the knowledge or foundation required to find and hold a good job. (SCANS,
1991, p. xv)</BLOCKQUOTE>


<P>The SCANS Report (1991) identified five basic competencies and a three-part
foundation that everyone must have for success in the workplace regardless of the
job held. These are summarized in <A HREF="/rdg/res/graphics/comp.html">
Table 1</A>. It is the responsibility of schools to
prepare students for the workplace. However, the SCANS Report (1991) found that
less than half of all young adults could read, write, use math, listen, or speak
effectively enough to move from school to the workplace; the report notes that
most schools do not even address listening and speaking.

<P>Literacy must also be considered in relation to the world of technology. We
hear about the Information Superhighway, a tool of communication that makes it
possible to have almost instant communications in all aspects of our lives.
Thornburg (1992) maintained that in our society we have ended the Information Age
and are moving into the Communication Age. He notes that many schools, however,
have just begun to move into the Information Age by adding new technologies while
society as a whole has moved well beyond this point to focusing more broadly on
the use of technology for high-speed communication. Therefore, literacy must also
be viewed as communicating through technology. Many teachers are well aware that
their students come to school knowing a great deal about computers, CD-ROM, and
other aspects of technology.

<P>Given what we have learned about literacy, the mismatch between adult literacy
and school literacy, the literacy requirements identified by potential employers,
and the advent of the Information Superhighway, we can see that there is a
discrepancy between what adults must actually face in the world and what schools
do under the heading of literacy. Schools need to broaden their concept of
literacy. Literacy must be viewed as the ability of individuals to communicate
effectively in the real world. This must involve teaching the abilities to
listen, read, write, speak, and view things, with thinking being an integral part
of each of these processes, while at the same time preparing students for the
"Communication Age." School literacy activities must take on more of a "real
world" perspective. Literacy should be viewed as the ability of individuals to
respond to the practical tasks of everyday life as Harris and associates noted
many years ago (1970). Obviously, these tasks are changing as we move into the
next century.

<A NAME="2"></A><H2>IMPLICATIONS OF "REAL WORLD" LITERACY</H2>

<P>Broadening the concept of literacy means that schools must broaden the type
and scope of activities that they provide under the heading of literacy learning.
School-based literacy activities need to reflect and prepare students for "real
world" literacy in much more effective ways.

<P>During the past decade or more, many schools have started to use themes as a
basic way for organizing instruction (Fredericks, Meinbach, & Rothlein, 1993). To
build on the need to have more of a "real world" literacy focus, schools need to
broaden their concept of theme and the materials that constitute themes.

<P>Typically, themes of study have focused on literature in the traditional
sense, including narrative and expository texts, with a heavy emphasis on
stories. However, a "real world" literacy perspective calls for themes that are
much broader in scope and content (Walmsley & Walp, 1990). These themes need to
be built around a combination of high-quality literature in the traditional sense
and high-quality "real world" resources, including such things as posters,
letters, magazines, maps, brochures, charts, journals, computer resources, and so
forth. In essence, broadening our concept of literacy leads us to broaden our
concept of literature to include all possible things that individuals might need
to learn to read and respond to in life.

<A NAME="3"></A><H2>"REAL WORLD" THEMES</H2>

<P> "Real world" themes are those that combine a variety of resources and
activities to allow students to have many different types of authentic literacy
learning experiences (Cooper, 1993). Authentic literacy learning experiences are
those that individuals would naturally have in real life. For example, you might
go to a museum to see an exhibit about ancient Egypt. A booklet on mummies is
available. As a follow-up to the visit, you might read the booklet and write to
the sources listed for more information. "Real world" themes will allow for these
same types of experiences to take place as a part of school learning. These
themes have the following important characteristics:

<OL> <LI>A clear focus around one or more meaningful, key concepts.

<LI>A balance of high-quality, authentic narrative and expository texts as
appropriate to the theme.

<LI>A balance of authentic "real world" resources.

<LI>A variety of authentic learning experiences involving both discovery and
direct instruction. </OL>

<P><B>1. Clear Focus</B>

<P>"Real world" themes that are effective in supporting literacy learning must
have a clear, meaningful focus (Lipson, Valencia, Wixson, & Peters, 1993). This
means that the theme must be developed around one or two key concepts. For
example, a theme on the community might focus on the key concept of
cooperation.

<P>The focus of the theme helps students build connections and relationships that
are critical to developing their abilities to construct meaning (Lipson,
Valencia, Wixson & Peters, 1993; Fredericks, Meinbach, & Rothlein, 1993).
Furthermore, a clearly focused theme makes it easier for the teacher to create
authentic learning experiences and develop appropriate assessment techniques
(Lipson, 1994; see also Valencia's paper on assessment). Too often, themes are
trivial, focusing on things which have no real value in helping students learn
(Routman, 1991).

<P><B>2. Quality Authentic Literature</B>

<P>Authentic literature refers to those texts which are in the original language
of the author (Routman, 1991; Walmsley & Walp, 1990). They are not rewritten to
conform to a readability formula or written from a controlled vocabulary list.


<P>The power of authentic literature to excite and motivate students to learn has
been clearly demonstrated (Cullinan, 1992). Charlotte Huck said, "We don't
achieve literacy and then give children literature; we achieve literacy through
literature" (1989, p. 258).

<P>The quality literature used in "real world" themes must include a balance of
narrative and expository texts (Cullinan, 1992). Stories constitute only one part
of what makes up the whole picture of quality literature (Norton, 1991). Stories
like <I>Tony's Bread</I> (dePaola, 1989), and <I>Wayside School is Falling
Down</I> (Sachar, 1989) are wonderful books that excite and motivate children and
young adults to read and write. However, expository or informational books are
also an important part of the quality literature that students need to experience
(Greenlaw & McIntosh, 1987). Informational books like <I>What Lives in a Shell?
</I>(Zoehfeld, 1994), <I>The Great Yellowstone Fire</I> (Vogel & Goldner, 1990),
and <I>Wolves</I> (Simon, 1993) give children and young adults an important
perspective on the world and also motivate them to read and write.

<P>There are many criteria for selecting quality literature (Norton, 1991;
Goodman & Goodman, 1991). It must always be remembered that selecting literature
for students involves a value judgment on the part of the teacher and/or anyone
who makes the selection. Literature for "real world" themes should include
narrative and expository texts which meet the following criteria (Cooper,
1993):

<UL> <LI><B>Developmental Appropriateness</B>--Beginning learners need books that
offer richness, rhyme, and pattern (Bridge, Winograd, & Haley, 1983). Beyond
these levels, developmental appropriateness should be determined by examining
concepts and general complexity of the texts.

<LI><B>Student Appeal</B>--It is very important for books used by students to be
appealing to them. A big part of "real world" learning is motivating and exciting
students. For example, books like <I>The Three Little Wolves</I> and the <I>Big
Bad Pig </I>(Trivizas, 1994), <I>Listen to the Desert/Oye al desierto </I> (Mora,
1994),<I> From the Mixed-up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler </I> (Konigsburg,
1967),<I> Number the Stars</I> (Lowry, 1989), and <I>Into the Mummy's Tomb</I>
(Reeves, 1992) are just a few books that have had high student appeal and are
very motivating. It must be remembered that student appeal is also an individual
matter.

<LI><B>Literary Quality</B>--Books used for instruction need to be of the highest
quality possible. This may be determined by using different sources that evaluate
books, such as <I>The WEB, The Horn Book Magazine, The New Advocate, Book Links,
The Reading Teacher, The Journal of Reading</I>, and many others.

<LI><B>Cultural and Social Authenticity</B>--Literature used in "real world"
themes should be culturally and socially authentic so that students see
themselves and others as their cultures really are. Au (1993) calls this
culturally conscious literature or literature that accurately reflects a group's
culture, language, history, and values. Books such as <I>Too Many Tamales</I>
(Soto, 1993), <I>When Jo Louis Won the Title</I> (Rochelle, 1994), and <I>Halmoni
and the Picnic</I> (Choi, 1993) are just a few that meet these criteria. </UL>

<P><B>3. Authentic "Real World" Resources</B>

<P>"Real world" themes should also include a variety of "real world" resources
such as magazines, newspapers, CD-ROMs, charts, posters, brochures, and maps. In
addition to making it possible for school learning experiences to focus on
literacy that is more like what is needed in the real world, these resources do a
number of other things:

<UL> <LI>They provide a variety of types of learning experiences for students who
might need different ways to learn. For example, a student who is more of a
visual learner might benefit from a poster on the pyramids when ancient Egypt is
being studied.

<LI>Real world resources help to broaden and enhance various concepts being
developed. A more capable reader who is reading<I> Old Yeller</I> (Gipson, 1956)
might be challenged by reading material from Patricia Lauber's <I>Cowboys and
Cattle Ranching: Yesterday and Today</I> (1973).

<LI>Magazine articles, posters, and maps may help students build background for
needed concepts. A poster on butterfly wings might be useful in building
background for or expanding concepts related to a book like <I>The Very Hungry
Caterpillar</I> (Carle, 1983). </UL>

<P>All "real world" resources used in themes must also be developmentally
appropriate, have student appeal, and be culturally and socially authentic.

<P><B>4. Authentic Learning Experiences</B>

<P>It has been well established that students learn concepts, skills, and
strategies best when they are developed in real environments (SCANS, 1991; Wells,
1986). Therefore, it is important to develop authentic learning experiences that
involve both discovery and direct instruction. Authentic learning experiences
would include many opportunities for students to solve problems, read and write,
as opposed to mark, circle, and underline. For example, in a theme on
understanding ancient mysteries, students might develop a book about mummies and
what can be learned from them. The teacher might provide a minilesson on how to
present information graphically in order to improve students' abilities to
develop their books.

<P>Learning experiences that capitalize on the Communication Age are also
important. Having students use various types of technology to enhance their
learning will help prepare them for the next century (A.S.C.D., 1994). Teachers
can also gain ongoing information to help their students by being connected with
other teachers through the Internet and other on-line services.

<A NAME="4"></A><H2>ADVANTAGES OF "REAL WORLD" THEMES</H2>

<P>"Real world" themes offer many advantages in the literacy-centered classroom.
These include:

<UL> <LI><B>High Motivation</B> </UL>


<P>By using a balance of quality narrative texts, expository texts, and real
world resources, student motivation is high because learning becomes so
meaningful. When learning is more meaningful for students, they learn more
effectively and learn more because what they are learning is functional and
useful (Lipson, 1994).

<UL> <LI><B>Building Connections</B> </UL>

<P>Learning and being able to construct meaning through reading and writing
involve building connections between new knowledge and old knowledge (Anderson &
Pearson, 1984). Having "real world" themes allows for better integration of all
the language arts across the curriculum. The connections become much easier for
learners to make. By having themes that include narrative texts, expository
texts, and "real world" resources, learners are able to develop literacy as they
would use it in real life. Learners experience many more types of writing;
therefore, it makes it easier for the teacher to teach writing as it will
actually be used in life. Students will come to see the many different types of
literature and "real world" resources as models which will serve as springboards
to their writing. "Real world" themes also allow many more opportunities to
develop strong cross-curricular connections. Themes that focus only on one genre
or type of literature do not allow this to happen as readily as more diversified
"real world" themes.

<UL> <LI><B>School Learning Matches the Real World</B> </UL>

<P> "Real world" themes allow for school learning experiences to more nearly
reflect the world where students will ultimately have to function. Students
studying a theme like Earth Patrol, a theme about the environment, will have many
opportunities to read, write, listen, and solve problems about their environment.
At the same time they will learn many valuable skills and strategies such as
writing letters, comparing, speaking persuasively, and so forth.

<UL> <LI><B>Natural Opportunities to Learn Strategies and Skills</B> </UL>

<P> "Real world" themes allow for many more places where students can use various
reading, writing, speaking, listening, viewing, and thinking skills and
strategies. Since literacy skills are learned in part through their use (Walmsley
& Walp, 1990), "real world" themes will lead to many more authentic ways for
students to learn and use these skills and strategies. By having a balance of
resources including narrative texts, expository texts, "real world" resources,
and computer resources, teachers will have many more places to teach skills and
strategies interactively through minilessons and/or more fully focused
lessons.

<A NAME="5"></A><H2>CONCLUSIONS</H2>

<P>As we work to prepare our students for the twenty-first century, we must be
certain that we are helping them learn the strategies and skills that will let
them function effectively in the Communication Age and all aspects of their
lives. Since we have a better understanding of literacy and literacy learning, we
can clearly see the need to broaden our thinking about literacy, which will lead
to broadening our thinking about themes and school literacy activities.

<P>"Real world" themes that include narrative texts, expository texts, and "real
world" resources will allow for many more opportunities for students to learn to
read, write, listen, speak, think, and view in meaningful situations. These
themes will provide many more opportunities for teachers to teach the strategies
and skills needed by effective literacy users. By having "real world" learning
experiences in school, students will more effectively develop the strategies,
skills, and abilities needed for becoming more critical, effective communicators
in all aspects of their lives.

<A NAME="6"></A><H2>REFERENCES</H2>

<P><B>Children's Books</B>

<P>Carle, E. (1983). <I>The Very Hungry Caterpillar.</I> New York: Philomel
Books.

<P>Cherry, L. (1990). <I>The Great Kapok Tree: A Tale of the Amazon Rain
Forest.</I> Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace & Company.

<P>Choi, S. N. (1993). <I>Halmoni and the Picnic.</I> Boston: Houghton Mifflin
Company.

<P>dePaola, T. (1989). <I>Tony's Bread.</I> New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

<P>Gipson, F. (1956). <I>Old Yeller.</I> New York: Harper & Row.

<P>Konigsburg, E. L. (1989). <I>From the Mixed-up Files of Mrs. Basil E.
Frankweiler.</I> Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.

<P>Lauber, P. (1973).<I> Cowboys and Cattle Ranching: Yesterday and Today.</I>
New York: Crowell.

<P>Lowry, L. (1989). <I>Number the Stars.</I> Boston: Houghton Mifflin
Company.

<P>Mora, P. (1994)<I> Listen to the Desert/Oye al desierto.</I> New York: Clarion
Books.

<P>Reeves, N. (1992). <I>Into the Mummy's Tomb.</I> New York: Scholastic,
Inc.

<P>Rochelle, B. (1994). <I>When Jo Louis Won the Title.</I> Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Company.

<P>Sachar, L. (1989). <I>Wayside School is Falling Down.</I> New York:
Lothrop,Lee  & Shepard Books.

<P>Simon, S. (1993). <I>Wolves.</I> New York: HarperCollins Publishers.

<P>Soto, G. (1993). <I>Too Many Tamales.</I> New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

<P>Trivizas, E. (1993). <I>The Three Little Wolves and the Big Bad Pig.</I> New
York: Simon & Schuster.

<P>Van Allsburg, C. (1990). <I>Just a Dream.</I> Boston: Houghton Mifflin
Company.

<P>Vogel, C. G. (1990). <I>The Great Yellowstone Fire.</I> Boston: Little, Brown
and Company.

<P>Zoehfeld, K. W. (1994). <I>What Lives in a Shell?</I> New York:
HarperCollins.

<P><B>Professional References</B>

<P>A.S.C.D. (1994). The Online Classroom. <I>Update,</I> 36(10), 1.

<P>Anderson, R. C., & Pearson, P. D. (1984). "A Schema-Theoretic View of Basic
Processes in Reading Comprehension." In P. D. Pearson (ed.), <I>Handbook of
Reading Research,</I> pp. 255-91. New York: Longman.

<P>Au, K. H. (1993). <I>Literacy Instruction in Multicultural Settings.</I>
Orlando: Harcourt, Brace Jovanovich.

<P>Bridge, C., Winograd, P. N., & Haley, D. (1983). "Using Predictable Materials
vs. Preprimers to Teach Beginning Sight Words." <I>The Reading Teacher,</I>
36(9), 884-891.

<P>Cooper, J. D. (1993). <I>Literacy: Helping Children Construct Meaning (2nd
ed.).</I> Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.

<P>Cullinan, B. E. (1992). "Leading with Literature." In B. E. Cullinan (ed.),
<I>Invitation to Read: More Children's Literature in the Reading Program</I> (pp.
x-xxii). Newark, DE: International Reading Association.

<P>Fredericks, A., Meinbach, A., & Rothlein, L. (1993). <I>Thematic Units.</I>
New York: HarperCollins.

<P>Goodman, K., & Goodman, Y. (1991). "Consumer Beware! Selecting Materials for
Whole Language Readers." In K. S. Goodman, L. B. Bird, & Y. M. Goodman (eds.),
<I>The Whole Language Catalog</I> (p. 119). American School Publishers.

<P>Greenlaw, J., & McIntosh, M. E. (1987). "Science Fiction and Fantasy Worth
Teaching to Teens." In B. E. Cullinan (ed.), <I>Children's Literature in the
Reading Program</I> (pp. 111-120). Newark, DE: International Reading
Association.

<P>Guthrie, J. T., & Greaney, V. (1991). "Literacy Acts." In P. Barr, M. L.
Kamil, P. Mosenthal, & P. D. Pearson, (eds.), <I>Handbook of Reading
Research,</I> Vol. 2 (pp. 68-96). New York: Longman.

<P>Harris, L., & Associates. (1970). <I>Survival Literacy Study.</I> New York:
Louis Harris and Associates, Inc.

<P>Heath, S. B. (1980). "The Functions and Uses of Literacy." <I>Journal of
Communication,</I> <B>30</B>(1), 123-133.

<P>Heath. S. B. (1983). <I>Ways With Words.</I> Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.

<P>Huck, C. S. (1989). "No Wider Than the Heart is Wide." In J. Hickman & B. E.
Cullinan (eds.), <I>Children's Literature in the Classroom: Weaving Charlotte's
Web</I> (pp. 252-262). Needham Heights, MA: Christopher-Gordon Publishers,
Inc.

<P>Lipson, M., Valencia, S. W., Wixson, K., & Peters, C. W. (1993). "Integration
and Thematic Teaching: Integration to Improve Teaching and Learning." <I>Language
Arts,</I> <B>70</B>(4), 252-263.

<P>Lipson, M. Y. (1994). "Teaching With Themes." A speech delivered at the
California Reading Association, November 4, 1994, Long Beach, CA.

<P>Norton, D. E. (1991). "Evaluating and Selecting Literature for Children." In
D. E. Norton (ed.), <I>Through the Eyes of a Child --An Introduction to
Children's Literature,</I> 3rd ed (pp. 83-126). New York: Macmillan Publishing
Co.

<P>Norton, D. E. (1991). <I>Through the Eyes of a Child--An Introduction to
Children's Literature,</I> 3rd ed. New York: Macmillan Publishing Co.

<P>Research for Better Schools, Inc. (1978). <I>Employer Attitudes Toward the
Preparation of Youth for Work.</I> Philadelphia: Research for Better Schools.

<P>Routman, R. (1991). <I>Invitations.</I> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.

<P>The Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills--SCANS. (1991).
<I>What Work Requires of Schools.</I> Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of
Labor.

<P>Smith, N. B. (1965). <I>American Reading Instruction.</I> Newark, DE:
International Reading Association.

<P>Thornburg, D. (1992). <I>Edutrends.</I> San Carlos, CA: Starsong
Publications.

<P>Walmsley, S. A. & Walp, T. P. (1990). "Integrating Literature and Composing
into the Language Arts Curriculum: Philosophy and Practice." <I>Elementary School
Journal</I>, <B>90</B>(3), 251-274.

<P>Wells, G. (1986). <I>The Meaning Makers: Children Learning Language and Using
Language to Learn.</I> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.


<P>
<HR SIZE=3>
<CENTER>
<FONT SIZE=3>
<A HREF="/rdg/index.html">Reading/Language Arts Center</A> |
<A HREF="/rdg/res/index.html">Professional Development</A>
<BR>
<A HREF="/index.html">Education Place</A> | 
<A HREF="/main.html">Site Index</A>
</FONT>
<P>
<FONT SIZE=2>Copyright &#169; 1997 Houghton Mifflin Company.  All Rights Reserved.<BR>
<A HREF="/forums/html/terms.html">Terms and Conditions of Use</A>.
</FONT>
</CENTER>


</BODY> </HTML>
